Learn how agents work under the hood
Layer 0: langchain doing everything:
  llm = ChatOpenAI(model = 'gpt-5')
  tools = [TavilySearch]
  agent = create_agent(model=llm, tools=tools)

Layer 1:
Agent loop: loop that runs continuously until agent has finished job:
Query -> LOOP: Thought -> Tool -> Thought ... -> Answer
This part is agent loop + function calling (langchain): @tool, bind_tools(), init_chat_model(), ToolMessage

This guy will also implement it the raw way, without lancgchain
agent loop + function calling: hand-written JSON schema, allama.chat()

Layer 2: Implement agent from scrath even without function calling --> To ebtter understand how agents work.
agent loop + raw react prompt: react prompt, regex, scratchpad

Project: Develop an agent for ecommerce store running three tier discounts. The agent should take wuery from user and
resturn price for item with discount.
Two tools:
1. Get item price
2. Get discounted amount for corresponding tier

Theory of ReAct (the agent loop)
First user query to the agent
Agent processes and returns answer

First step of agent: decide what tool to use or return answer: Thought (LLM thinking after we send it the query and all the tools and information
that the agent has at its disposal). The output is the next thing to execute: the tool call or an answer if it already has enough information.
LLM decides what tool to use: uses function features.
We then take the agents decision and execute that action, that will happen in our application: LLM will give us Whattool to use and with what areguments,
we take that and run it in our agent application.
The result of the tool is referred to as Observation.
Now we take feed all back to the llm, the outut and the history (Trackpad). The agent has the query, the info about the product price. So in the 
second iteration of the LLM, it knows that it must now apply a different tool. So we execute that decision in out application and we get 
another Observation.
In the third iteration of the agent, we send the LLM the query, the first output, the second output, what tools it executed, the whole history, Sothe agent has enough
information to decide not to use another tool, but to provide the answer. 
