Prompt template

We may want to take prompt and give it parameters, to get different output.

Langchain has prompt templates: help format things 
into strings to be sent into LLMs.

Chatmodel object will often be our primary interface for interacting 
with LLM, its a standard way that Langchain provides to talk to LLMs

The input will be a list of structured messages like a system instruction, user questions 
or AI repsonse and the output will be an AI message.

Chatmodels have a lot of capabilities.

Langchain chain is a workflow that conencts multiple components chained together in a sequence
The outut of one step becomes the input of the next one. Each step can be an LLM call, a prompt template,
tool call, data transformation, another chain... allows to build complex stuff

We copied nformation into the function from a real person and we want it to propagate to the LLM via the prompt template
that I provided in the function too. We can do it programatically with the prompt template object
of langchain.

The whole process looks like this:
information (raw text)
        ↓
PromptTemplate (formats the prompt)
        ↓
ChatOpenAI (sends to GPT-4o-mini)
        ↓
response (summary + facts)

Its a chain:
PromptTemplate  →  ChatOpenAI
    link 1             link 2

Prompt → LLM → output parser → another prompt → another LLM → final answer

In the repsonse to my first model, the LLM introduced information other than what I gave it.
One solution would be to improve the prompt: Do not use any other information other than the one provided in prompt.
Also, per Claude: In production agentic apps you'd typically combine this with RAG (Retrieval Augmented Generation) 
— where instead of relying on the model's memory, you explicitly feed it only the documents/context it's allowed 
to use. You'll likely cover this later in the course.

Using the debugger we can see the eleents of the response (red dot response and run debugger)
The type of repsonse is an AIMessage, it contains the answer but also the tokens used, an id, model used, 
finish reason for the LLM, ...


Configure Langchain Smith
Used for observability and debugging for LLM applications.
"Each request generates a trace, which captures the full record of what happened. Within a trace are individual runs, 
the specific operations your application performed, such as an LLM call or a retrieval step. Tracing runs allows 
you to inspect, debug, and validate your application’s behavior."

pip install -U langchain langchain-openai
For the integraton, just add a few things into the .env file.

Setting that up and then going to my account in:
https://smith.langchain.com
I can see the actual prompt passed to chagpt, the tokens, the cost, start time, end time, latency, etc.
