Retrieval augmentation generation (RAG)

LLMs have two big limitations:
  - Knowledge cutoff — they don't know anything after their training date
  - No access to private data
What does RAG do:
Instead of relying solely on the LLM's training, RAG retrieves relevant information first 
and then feeds it to the LLM as context before asking it to answer.

User asks a question
        ↓
Search your documents for relevant info  ← the "Retrieval" part
        ↓
Feed that info + question to the LLM
        ↓
LLM generates answer based on YOUR data  ← the "Augmented Generation" part

Question to self: feed raw claims and enrollment data into llm as RAG? No, right, only the
outout of functions, that should be enough.

First solution: add all the context to the prompt :( NO
Notice that we cannot add all the context to the prompt: the prompt has limits, its non escalable,
we will exceed token limits, the llm will be less effective with very long prompts, llm takes too long to process.

Second solution: split the context into chunks, take user query, find the most
relevant chunk for the question and plug only the relevant chunk of context to the prompt with the question.
LLm will have it easier to response and less expensive. BUT we need to preprocess the context docs and split them
into chunks, what if the context is a code repository, what if we dont know the context documents and we get it 
dinamically from user. Also, we need a searching emchanism to find relevant chunks.

What's a token?
Roughly 1 token = 0.75 words. 

A way to think about RAG is:
You feed the llm only with the relevant chunk of data.

Now, to find the relevant chunks of data, RAG doesn't 
just do a keyword search like Google. It uses something called vector embeddings which converts 
text into numbers that represent meaning, so it can find chunks that are semantically similar to 
the question even if they don't share the exact same words.

1000 PDFs stored somewhere
        ↓
User asks a question
        ↓
RAG searches and finds the 3-4 most relevant chunks
        ↓
Only those chunks get sent to the LLM
        ↓
LLM answers based on just those chunks

So another important element are vector embeddings

Vector embeddings

- Langchain document loaders: LangChain Document Loaders are tools that fetch and 
standardize data from different sources so it can be fed into a RAG pipeline.
They take raw data from any source and convert it into a standard LangChain 
Document object that always looks like:
Document(
    page_content="the actual text...",
    metadata={"source": "company_policy.pdf", "page": 3}
)

- Langchain text splitters: LangChain Text Splitters are tools that break large 
documents into smaller chunks so they can be efficiently stored and retrieved in a RAG pipeline.
The problem they solve
After loading your documents you have large blocks of text — maybe an entire PDF. 
You can't store or search that efficiently. You need to break it into smaller pieces 
so RAG can find only the relevant parts instead of returning the whole document.
They split text based on rules you define (chunk size, chunk overlap).
We want to keep stuff semantically related.
We can reassemble back together.

Only send the chunks with high probabilty of having the answer to the llm

- Embeddings: Embeddings convert text into lists of numbers (called vectors) 
that represent the meaning of the text. Words with similar meaning end up with similar vectors.
The idea of embeddings is to create a vectoric space from the text such that the
distance between the vectors in the space have a certain meaning.
In good embedding models, text with similar semantic meaning represented in vectors 
that are very close together (you can measure vecotrs distance).

We find the data whose embedding is closest to the query and send in that data with the prompt to the llm
and tell the llm to use that context to answer the question. The vector database is a database that is saving 
those embeddings and provides us the closest vector to the one we have.

Steps: embed each chunk of the data, save them into vector database (eg.pinecone), 
take users question, embed it into question, place it into vector space and take only context embeddings
that are closest to the query vector, those sematically close, and send only the relevant context and the query into LLM.


- Vector Stores: A database specifically designed to store and search vectors 
(the numbers embeddings generate).
The problem they solve: You might have millions of chunks each converted to vectors. 

You need a way to quickly find which vectors are most similar to your query vector. 
A regular database can't do this efficiently — vector stores are optimized specifically for this.


Code:
Do an entire RAG pipeline from ingestion to retrieval.
Set up environment.

Using langchain-pinecone and langchain-community for community code
Pinecone is a managed vector store

 In file ingestion.py: ingests the text, chunks into pieces, embbed every 
 chunk and turn into vector, store each vector in the pinecone vector store.
 Pinecone is the vector store:
 Documents
    ↓
Text Splitter (chunks)
    ↓
Embeddings (chunks → vectors/numbers)
    ↓
Pinecone  ← stores those vectors and lets you search them
    ↓
RetrievalQA Chain
    ↓
LLM

Ingestion: take the data and load it into langchain doc object, split doc into 
chunks with langchain splitter, embbed chunks and turn into vectors, and store vectors in pineone vector store

Document loaders: how to load and process data to make it difgestible for llm, any type of text data, 
document loader is a LangChain tool that fetches and standardizes data from different sources so it can be fed into a RAG pipeline.

There are loaders for everything: videos, slack files, whatsapp files...

Text splitter: to help us with large pieces of text. We tae large text and put into chunks.
They have a lost of logic: strategies to compute chunks and chunks sizes.
Chunk overlap: how much overlap between chunks: can be helpful to ensure that
text is not split in ways that disturb context or meaning.
Embedding model/encoder: Kind of a blackbox that takes text and outputs embedded vectors of 
text. Options include:Cohere, Huggingface, openai...
Vector databases: Persistence storage, where to store the vectors (pinecone). There are other options though,
like FAISS (Meta), Chroma or many DB comapnies support vector db (PostgreSQL with the pgvector extension (MongoDB, Redis, Elasticsearch)
And if the document is small enough even do it locally using RAM: from langchain_community.vectorstores import DocArrayInMemorySearch